Welcome back.
Now one thing you may have noticed if you're really paying attention is that these tests are fine for
now because the Swaby API is fairly fast and we're getting the data back fairly soon.
But imagine if we had many of these tests.
Imagine if we had a prize that return lots of data that takes a long time to actually get to you can
imagine this growing bigger and bigger until it takes forever for our tests to run.
I mean it only took 2.5 five seven seconds but with more and more tests worth more and more asynchronous
tests that we wait to actually get a data response it's going to take longer and longer.
And if we're developers and working and saving our We're costly.
If we have to wait a couple minutes for our tests every time that's really going to slow us down how
can we improve this so that we're not always doing this fiscal Well we can use something called Mock's
with a mark we can fake a function and just pretend to have it running so that we can use this money
to let us spy on the behavior of a function.
That is called indirectly by some other code rather than just testing the output and waiting for the
asynchronous code to complete.
And you can create Mock's and just really really easily.
So let's do that.
Let's create a mark here to speed up our asynchronous tests.
The first thing we're going to do let's create more space here.
I'm going to again create a new test we'll just call this get people
returns count and results and end here.
We'll do the same thing.
Second parameter is a function.
Now we're going to create something interesting.
We're going to mock this fetch because first of all note fetch a third party library.
And if we've really tested out the library code and we checked the get Haab repo and they have tests
we don't need to test that it works.
We can assume that the fetch function works as intended.
So let's just do a mock fetch and mock fetch.
And this is going to be a variable.
So let's just say cost we can mock the fetch and the way we can do that in jest.
Again if you remember this is something that comes with just mock spies and stuffs.
Otherwise if you using something like Moka you'd use sign on but with just it we can just do jest dot
four function and we can do something called again.
This is all in their documentation.
We can do something called mock return value and we can just return something as if this fecche function
was called.
So what does a fetch function usually return well.
We know that returns a promise.
And let's just for now say that it's always going to resolve.
So that is a resolved promise and inside of this resolve.
Let me make this on a new line just so we can see it better and better.
Here.
Man let's make this a little bit smaller.
We want to resolve to an object that is Jason because if you remember we always have to do the dust
then response dot Jaison so we can just mock this whole thing out.
We can say that Jason.
So the object that we return is going to be a promise.
So we're going to resolve a promise with the Jaison method and this method again is a
promise.
So again promise and resolve and this promise again this part we're doing this the Don J song and then
we get the data so we can say that within the resolve we'll have count equals 87 and the results will
be let's just create an array that says 0 1 2 3 4 5 let's say this and get a bit of a syntax error let's
fix that.
We have an unexpected token and I forgot to come over here
classic commas they always get me.
All right.
So now we just marked the fetch call.
Instead of calling this get people promise and wait for the data and get the data or the data.
Their results were actually just doing that automatically assuming that the API works.
So we can just test our other parts of the function.
Again because this is still asynchronous we're returning a promise remember we'll want to do a return
Swaby dot get people to get people promise and and here we can instead of the fecche do the walk fetch
we're mocking the function that is fetch and this is how when we test we can use dependency injection
to make sure that we're testing different functionality.
And you might remember this from integration tests but without actually using up all these resources
we're trying to be as smart as possible.
Now we can have the dot then and we're going to see the data just like we did up above where we hear
now within here.
Let's do a few tests.
We want to expect the maake fetch.
That's right because we used just to dot F-ed and we now have an ability to listen in because in just
this is also a spy we can spy on this and see what this function did inside of this function.
So what didn't Mark fetched do inside of get people promise.
I can't say I expect mock fetch doc mock.
Again this is in the documentation to have a cause.
So how many times has this been called.
I'm going to say lenth.
So the number of times it's been called to be one let's safe
and this is passing.
But remember with asynchronous tests we want to always do the expect dot assertions to make sure that
they're being called.
So in this case we only have one everything works.
If I changed this to zero
that fails because we actually did call the Mach fish this function called the maake fetch once.
Very cool.
What else can we do well.
Another thing we can do.
Well let me just copy this.
We can expect maake fetch have another method called to be called with and we can test to see what this
was called with.
In our case it should be called with this yourself.
So again let's put it in here.
Let's test this out.
I'm going to save
Oh and I actually did make a mistake and we want to do expect again the mock fetch to I've been called
with the u r l the save o and remove the bracket.
All right.
It's actually passing by Remember our assertions is now expecting two things.
So I'm going to save
you see how it took a little bit more time this time.
Again because we're repeatedly calling this API it's taking a little bit more time this time 3.9 81
seconds.
But with the mark because we're returning we're doing to resolve right away.
It's a lot faster and that's passing.
If for some reason I changed this to and a call we expected to call planets and said
we see that it fails because we expect the get people to actually get the people not the planet's very
cool.
All right.
Let's do a few more.
Well let's just add again.
Copy and pasting in testing is not bad.
Let's just copy and paste this and expect that things work the exact same as they did in the above with
the regular fish.
But this time with our Mach. so we can save go back
and I have a test failing because now our assertion number is four
woohoo.
Everything is passing.
And if I change this count to eighty nine and I change this to eighty nine but let's say to be greater
than 10 it should fail
because our results only have six items.
There you go.
But if I change this to greater than 5
our tests are passing very very cool.
And there you have it other than learning a few methods.
Such as to be greater than are two equal which you can always check and the documentation when you write
a test everything is pretty simple right.
Once you get the hang of it we have a synchronous tests that are very very easy and we just haven't
expect assertion.
And then we have a synchronous test that we just have to remember to return and make sure that we have
access to the promise whatever returns.
And then we can also to avoid long running a synchronous code such as API calls or maybe even a database
call to mock and mock functions also known US spies.
And just because they let you spy on the behavior of the function is called by our test and it's going
to spy on what is happening.
And you saw that give people promise actually runs this mock fish that we created.
And all you need is this syntax.
And here we just added extra things because we wanted a certain behavior but even just doing this we
could have seen that Mach fetch would have been called with this you URL just an awesome awesome tool.
If you work with other libraries you'll see a lot of the similarities.
Like I said Mock's Stobbs and spice can also be seen in sign on especially if you work with moka.
But overall the principles are the same and you can see that tests can be fun because we're just testing
logic and nothing feels better than getting all these green passes.
All right that's it for now.
I think it's time for us to get into some re-act testing and testing our robo friends up.
I'll see in the next one.
Bye bye.